PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                                           July 2026

                               PRODUCT MANUAL
                      RADIAL SPHERICAL ROLLER BEARINGS
                 DOUBLE ROW WITH CYLINDRICAL OR TAPERED BORE
                         According to IS 6454 (Part 2): 2026

This Product Manual shall be used as reference material by all Regional/Branch Offices & licensees to ensure
uniformity of practice and transparency in operation of certification under Scheme-I of Bureau of Indian
Standards (Conformity Assessment) Regulations,2018 for various products. The document may also be used
by prospective applicants desirous of obtaining BIS certification.

                                                            Row with Cylindrical or Tapered Bore
       No. of amendments
     Raw material                                           Cage (Cl. 8.2)
                                                            Note: This section indicates the requirements for raw material
                                                            (if specified in the IS) for which compliance is to be
                                                            established during Grant of Licence/Change in Scope of
                                                            Licence/Factory Surveillance.

     Grouping Guidelines
       Sample Quantity
                                                            Bearing outside diameter (D)
                                                            Bearing width (B)
       Parameters to be Declared in Test                    Material of the Rings, Rollers and Cages, in
       Request                                              addition to the parameters given in scope of the
                                                            licence under S. No. 6
                                                            Note: Apart from the above, any other requirements/
                                                            parameters may also be declared as per the standard, as
                                                            applicable.
     List of Test Equipment

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 8

                                                                                      PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                                  July 2026

   Scheme of Inspection and Testing
   Possible tests in a day
                                                   Note: This section is for the guidance of BIS Certification
                                                   Officers/ Technical Auditors of BIS Authorized Outside
                                                   Surveillance Agencies (OSAs) during factory inspection to
                                                   provide ready reference regarding the tests which can be
                                                   witnessed during the inspection in the factory by the officer/
                                                   auditor.
 “Licence is granted to use Standard Mark as per IS 6454 (Part 2):2026 with the following scope:
Name of the product         Radial Spherical Roller Bearings
                            Part 2 Double Row with Cylindrical or Tapered Bore
Type                        Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings
                            Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings with Locating Snap Ring
                            Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings with Circlips
Variant                     Cylindrical Bore / 1:12 Tapered Bore / 1:30 Tapered Bore
Bearing bore                From ……. mm to ……. mm
diameter (d)
Material Rings              To be declared by the manufacturer
          Rollers           To be declared by the manufacturer
          Cage              To be declared by the manufacturer
Tolerance Class             P0 (tolerance class normal) / P6 (tolerance class 6)/
                            P5 (tolerance class 5)/ P4 (tolerance class 4)/ P2 (tolerance class 2)

                      BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS
       MANAK BHAVAN, 9, BAHADUR SHAH ZAFAR MARG, NEW DELHI-110002
                             www.bis.gov.in

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 8

                                                                             PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                         July 2026

                                      ANNEX - A
                                  Grouping Guidelines

  1. Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings as per IS 6454 (Part 2):2026 may be classified
     as below:

Type                     Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings
                         Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings with Locating Snap Ring
                         Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings with Circlips
Variant                  Cylindrical Bore / 1:12 Tapered Bore / 1:30 Tapered Bore
Bearing bore             From ……. mm to ……. mm
diameter (d)
Material Rings           To be declared by the manufacturer
          Rollers        To be declared by the manufacturer
          Cage           To be declared by the manufacturer
Tolerance Class          P0 (tolerance class normal) / P6 (tolerance class 6)/
                         P5 (tolerance class 5)/ P4 (tolerance class 4)/ P2 (tolerance class 2)

  2. Further, Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings are grouped as following:

       Group          Nominal Size for Bearing Bore Diameter (d)
       Group-I        Upto and including 250 mm
       Group-II       Above 250 mm to Upto and including 500 mm
       Group-III      Above 500 mm to Upto and including 1000 mm
       Group-IV       All others above 1000 mm

  3. Based on the above classification and grouping, following grouping guidelines shall be
     followed for considering Grant of Licence (GoL)/Change in Scope of Licence (CSoL):
   Samples of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of each type shall be tested
      separately.
   Samples of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of each variant shall be tested
      separately.
   Samples of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings for each type of material (for
      rings, rollers and cage) and each tolerance class shall be tested separately.
   Samples of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of any bearing bore diameter from
      each of the group defined in Sl. No. 2 above, for any of bearing outside diameter and width
      shall be tested to cover all other bearing bore diameter in that group. However, it shall be
      ensured that bearing of largest nominal dia for which the firm intends to take the licence is
      tested. For example, if a manufacturer intends to cover Double Row Radial Spherical Roller
      Bearings upto bearing bore diameter of 1500 mm, Double Row Radial Spherical Roller
      Bearings of any bearing bore diameter from Group-I, II & III shall be tested and largest
      bearing bore diameter (i.e) 1500 mm shall be tested to cover the entire range.

  4. However, the following relaxation may be considered:
  (i) If sample of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings with Locating Snap Ring is tested,
      Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings without Locating Snap Ring may also be
      covered in the scope of licence. If sample of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings
      with Circlips is tested, Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings without Circlips may
      also be covered in the scope of licence.

                                                                                        Page 3 of 8

                                                                            PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                        July 2026

(ii) If Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of variant 1:30 Tapered Bore is tested,
     Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of variant 1:12 Tapered Bore and variant
     Cylindrical Bore may also be included in the scope of licence. If Double Row Radial
     Spherical Roller Bearings of variant 1:12 Tapered Bore is tested, Double Row Radial
     Spherical Roller Bearings of variant Cylindrical Bore may also be included in the scope of
     licence.

(iii) If sample of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings having highest Tolerance class
      is tested, all other tolerance class may be included in the scope of licence without further
      testing.

    Note: Tolerance class grading - P2 (tolerance class 2) > P4 (tolerance class 4) > P5
    (tolerance class 5) > P6 (tolerance class 6) > P0 (tolerance class normal)

5. Manufacturers shall declare all the designations of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller
   Bearings they intend to cover in the scope of licence. The Scope of Licence may be
   restricted based on the Manufacturing and testing capabilities of the Manufacturer.

6. During the operation of the Licence, BO shall ensure that all the varieties of Double Row
   Radial Spherical Roller Bearings covered in the Licence are tested in rotation, to the extent
   possible.

   Note:
   Manufacturer shall submit the following:
   (a) Hardness requirement, if an upper value is to be specified/ if any special heat treatment
       is done as per Cl. 10
   (b) Load Ratings as per Cl. 11
   (c) Product Noise, as agreed (if any) as per Cl. 12.2
   (d) Designation for all bearings as per Cl. 14

                                                                                       Page 4 of 8

                                                                              PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                          July 2026

                                          ANNEX- B
                                  List of Test Equipments
                                (Indicative List, For Guidance Only)

 Sl.    Cl. Ref.    Tests used in with         Test Equipment
 No.                Clause Reference
  1.     4, 6       Boundary Dimensions         Coordinate Measuring Machine (CMM)
        Table 1                                 Computerized Profile measurement system
                                                Height Gauge/Bore & OD Gauge
                                                Micrometer
                                                Dial Gauge
  2.        5       Tolerances and              Runout Gauges for inner ring and outer ring
                    Geometrical                 Roundness Tester Gauge/ measuring equipment
                    Characteristics             Gauges or other dimensional measuring
                                                arrangements for snap ring and snap ring grooves
                                                Other gauges, as applicable as per IS 11027 (Part 2)
  3         7       Radial Internal             Radial Internal Clearance Checking Machine
                    Clearance
  4.        8       Material                    Spectrometer
                                                Chemical analysis kit
  5.        9       Surface Finish               Computerized Profile Measurement System /
                                                 Surface Roughness Gauge meter (Ra meter)
  6.       10       Hardness                     Hardness Tester
                                                 Sample preparation tools
  7.      12.1      Visual Inspection            Magnifying glass
                                                 Defect inspection light
                                                 Surface Table
  8.      12.4      Temperatures                 Thermometer
                                                 Hot Air Oven
  9.       13       Measuring and                As per IS 11027 (Part 2)
                    Gauging Methods
 10.       4.2      Circlips                    Testing arrangement for bend & twist test
                                                Testing arrangement for fracture test
                                                Testing arrangement for Deformation (conical and
                                                spiral) test
                                                Test arrangement for Permanent Set and Grip Test
                                                Tests for finish as per IS 3618

The above list is indicative only and may not be treated as exhaustive.

                                                                                         Page 5 of 8

                                                                                   PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                               July 2026

                                        ANNEX C
                             Scheme of Inspection and Testing

1. QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN

1.1 It is expected that during operation of BIS licence manufacturers will implement a Quality
    Assurance Plan (QAP) i.e. a plan of regular testing and in-process controls, designed to ensure
    that the product bearing the Standard Mark conforms to all requirements of the Indian Standard.

1.2 The manufacturers shall define a Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) defining the control unit (i.e.
    lot/batch etc.), the levels of control (i.e. the frequency and number of samples for conducting the
    different tests as per the Indian Standard) and declare the arrangement for testing i.e. whether in-
    house or sub-contracting/ sharing for each applicable test and submit the same to BIS Branch
    Office for information. The manufacturer shall comply with the QAP and maintain test records in
    accordance with para 2.1.

1.3 Recommended Levels of Control/ Control Unit:
 1.3.1 For the guidance of manufacturers, the recommended definition of control unit is: entire
       quantity of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings of same type, same variant and
       same nominal bearing bore diameter with same tolerance class, manufactured in a day under
       similar process condition from the same grade of raw materials shall constitute a control unit.
 1.3.2 For the guidance of manufacturers in preparing the Quality Assurance Plan, recommended
       levels of control are given in Table 1. Manufacturer has the discretion of declaring their own
       levels of control or accept the levels of control given in this document.
 1.3.3 The manufacturer shall ensure inspection and testing as per the Quality Assurance Plan
       submitted by them on the whole production of the factory which is covered by this plan.

1.4 However, all manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of
    the Indian Standard.

2. ENSURING COMPLIANCE THROUGH TESTING
  The manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of the Indian
  Standard for which they may have in-house test facilities. However, there is no obligation to
  maintain in-house laboratory. Licensee may use alternative arrangements for tests of the
  production as per the declared QAP. Various alternatives are available for operation of BIS
  certification as given below and the relevant guidelines for availing such relaxations by the
  manufacturers, as amended from time to time, are to be referred:
           i) Shared testing resources like common facility,
           ii) Cluster based testing facility,
           iii) Sub-contracting to outside laboratories which may either be:
                             a) BIS recognised/ empanelled laboratories, or
                             b) Any accredited laboratory as per ISO/IEC 17025

2.1 Test Records- The manufacturers shall maintain test records for the tests carried out (either in-
    house or at a sub-contracted or at shared test facility) to establish conformity of the product to the
    Standard for operation of licence. For the tests being subcontracted or conducted at a shared test
    facility, test results issued by the laboratories or test facilities, shall be made available for
    inspection by BIS.

                                                                                              Page 6 of 8

                                                                                 PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                             July 2026

3. PACKING AND MARKING
  The Standard Mark as given in the Schedule of the licence shall be incorporated legibly and indelibly
  on on the packaging of the Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings provided always that the
  Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings so marked conforms to each requirement of the
  specification.

3.1 Packing and Marking of Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings shall be done as per Cl. 15
    and Cl. 16 of IS 6454 (Part 2):2026.

3.2 Additional Marking requirements: The Double Row Radial Spherical Roller Bearings shall also
    be marked with the following additional requirement on its packaging:
                        a) “For BIS certification details please visit www.bis.gov.in”

4. REJECTION
   The production which conforms to the Indian Standard and covered under the scope of this licence
   shall be marked with the Standard Mark. Disposal of non-conforming product shall be done in such
   a way so as to ensure that there is no violation of provisions of BIS Act, 2016.

                                                                                            Page 7 of 8

                                                                                                                                  PM/ IS 6454 (Part 2)/ 1
                                                                                                                                              July 2026
                                                                        TABLE-1
                                                (Recommended Levels of Control by BIS- for Guidance Only)
                                  (1)                                                                         (2)
                             Test Details                                                              Levels of Control
                                            Test Methods                 No. of
Cl.          Requirement                                                                 Frequency                         Remarks
                                       Clause     Reference             Sample
8.1    Materials for Rings, Rollers                    IS 17111                                          No further testing is required if accompanied
                                                                           01      Each consignment
8.2    Materials for Cages              8.2         IS 6454 (Part 2)                                     with the Test Certificate or ISI marked.

 4     Boundary Dimensions                  4       IS 6454 (Part 2)

       Double Row Radial                            IS 6454 (Part 2)
4.1                                   Table 1
       Spherical Roller Bearings                        IS 5669
       Double Row Radial
4.2    Spherical Roller Bearings                       IS 11904
       with Locating Snap Ring
                                                                        Firm to also have adequate in-process controls to check compliance of this
       Double Row Radial                                                parameter as per the tolerances given in the Indian Standard. Appropriate
4.2    Spherical Roller Bearings                    IS 3075 (Part 1)    records shall be maintained by the manufacturer for evidence of conformity.
       with Circlips
       Tolerances and
 5                                                      IS 5692
       Geometrical Characteristics
                                                    IS 5935 (Part 1)/
 7     Radial Internal Clearance
                                                   IS 11027 (Part 2)
 9     Surface Finish                                   IS 3073
                                                   IS 1586 (Part 1)/
10     Hardness                                                            01      Each Control Unit
                                                    IS 1501 (Part 1)
12.1   Visual Inspection                12.1        IS 6454 (Part 2)    Firm to have adequate in-process controls to check compliance of this
                                                                        parameter as per the tolerances given in the Indian Standard. Appropriate
12.3   Interchangeability               12.3        IS 6454 (Part 2)    records shall be maintained by the manufacturer for evidence of conformity.

12.4   Temperatures                     12.4        IS 6454 (Part 2)       01      Each Control Unit

                                                                                                                                             Page 8 of 8
