PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                                         June 2026

                            PRODUCT MANUAL
         CANE FOR PERSONS WITH VISUAL IMPAIRMENT - FOLDING TYPE
                     According to IS 11646 (Part 2):2026

This Product Manual shall be used as reference material by all Regional/Branch Offices & licensees to ensure
uniformity of practice and transparency in operation of certification under Scheme-I of Bureau of Indian
Standards (Conformity Assessment) Regulations,2018 for various products. The document may also be used
by prospective applicants desirous of obtaining BIS certification.

                                                            Type
       No. of amendments
       Raw material                                         Note: This section indicates the requirements for raw material
                                                            (if specified in the IS) for which compliance is to be
                                                            established during Grant of Licence/Change in Scope of
                                                            Licence/Factory Surveillance.
     Grouping Guidelines
       Sample Quantity
                                                            Note: Apart from the above, any other requirements/
       Parameters to be Declared in Test
                                                            parameters may also be declared as per the standard, as
       Request                                              applicable.
     List of Test Equipment
     Scheme of Inspection and Testing
     Possible tests in a day                                Note: This section is for the guidance of BIS Certification
                                                            Officers/ Technical Auditors of BIS Authorized Outside
                                                            Surveillance Agencies (OSAs) during factory inspection to
                                                            provide ready reference regarding the tests which can be
                                                            witnessed during the inspection in the factory by the officer/
                                                            auditor.

                                                                                                            Page 1 of 7

                                                                       PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                  June 2026
“License is granted to use Standard Mark as per IS 11646 (Part 2):2026 with the following
scope:
Name of the product              Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type
Size                              Adult size / Child size

                      BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS
       MANAK BHAVAN, 9, BAHADUR SHAH ZAFAR MARG, NEW DELHI-110002
                             www.bis.gov.in

                                                                                  Page 2 of 7

                                                                              PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                         June 2026
                                     ANNEX -A
                                 Grouping Guidelines

1. “Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type” covered in IS 11646 (Part 2):2026
   is classified into following:

   Size: Adult Size / Child Size

2. Based on the above classification, following grouping guidelines shall be followed for
   considering Grant of Licence (GoL)/Change in Scope of Licence (CSoL):

    Sample of Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type of each size shall
    be tested for all tests to cover that particular size. However, if sample of adult size is tested,
    child size may also be covered.

3. The manufacturer shall declare the sizes of Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment -
   Folding Type they intend to cover in the Licence.

4. The Scope of Licence may be restricted based on the Manufacturing and testing capabilities
   of the manufacturer.

5. During the operation of Licence, it shall be ensured that all the varieties covered in the
   Licence are tested in rotation, to the extent possible.

                                                                                           Page 3 of 7

                                                                             PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                        June 2026
                                          ANNEX- B
                                  List of Test Equipments
                                (Indicative List, For Guidance Only)

Major test equipment required to test as per the Indian Standard

 Sl.       Cl. Ref.      Tests used in with        Test Equipment
 No.      (IS 11646      Clause Reference
           (Part 2))
  1.          5          Construction              Steel Scale
                                                   Vernier calliper
                                                   Micrometer
                                                   Measuring Tape
                                                   Weighing Scale
  2.         7.1         Endurance Test            Manual/Mechanical means for folding and
                                                   unfolding

The above list is indicative only and may not be treated as exhaustive.

                                                                                        Page 4 of 7

                                                                                   PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                              June 2026

                                         ANNEX - C
                              Scheme of Inspection and Testing

1. QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN

1.1 It is expected that during operation of BIS licence manufacturers will implement a Quality
    Assurance Plan (QAP) i.e. a plan of regular testing and in-process controls, designed to ensure
    that the product bearing the Standard Mark conforms to all requirements of the Indian Standard.

 1.2 The manufacturers shall define a Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) defining the control unit (i.e.
     lot/batch etc.), the levels of control (i.e. the frequency and number of samples for conducting the
     different tests as per the Indian Standard) and declare the arrangement for testing i.e. whether in-
     house or sub-contracting/ sharing for each applicable test and submit the same to BIS Branch
     Office for information. The manufacturer shall comply with the QAP and maintain test records in
     accordance with para 2.1.

 1.3 Recommended Levels of Control/ Control Unit:
1.3.1 For the guidance of manufacturers, the recommended definition of control unit is: entire quantity
       of Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type of same size, manufactured from
       same consignment of material under similar conditions of production constitute a control unit.
     1.3.2 For the guidance of manufacturers in preparing the Quality Assurance Plan, recommended
            levels of control are given in Table 1. Manufacturer has the discretion of declaring their
            own levels of control or accept the levels of control given in this document.
     1.3.3 The manufacturer shall ensure inspection and testing as per the Quality Assurance Plan
            submitted by them on the whole production of the factory which is covered by this plan.

 1.4 However, all manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of
     the Indian Standard.

2. ENSURING COMPLIANCE THROUGH TESTING
   The manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of the Indian
   Standard for which they may have in-house test facilities. However, there is no obligation to
   maintain in-house laboratory. Licensee may use alternative arrangements for tests of the
   production as per the declared QAP. Various alternatives are available for operation of BIS
   certification as given below and the relevant guidelines for availing such relaxations by the
   manufacturers, as amended from time to time, are to be referred:
            i) Shared testing resources like common facility,
            ii) Cluster based testing facility,
            iii) Sub-contracting to outside laboratories which may either be:
                              a) BIS recognised/ empanelled laboratories, or
                              b) Any accredited laboratory as per ISO/IEC 17025

 2.1 Test Records- The manufacturers shall maintain test records for the tests carried out (either in-
     house or at a sub-contracted or at shared test facility) to establish conformity of the product to the
     Standard for operation of licence. For the tests being subcontracted or conducted at a shared test
     facility, test results issued by the laboratories or test facilities, shall be made available for
     inspection by BIS.

                                                                                               Page 5 of 7

                                                                                PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                           June 2026

3. PACKING AND MARKING
  The Standard Mark as given in the Schedule of the licence shall be incorporated legibly and indelibly
  on on the packaging of the Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type provided always
  that the Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type so marked conforms to each
  requirement of the specification.

3.1 Marking and Packing of Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type shall be done as
    per Cl. 8 and Cl. 9 of IS 11646 (Part 2):2026.

3.2 Additional Marking requirements: The Cane for Persons with Visual Impairment - Folding Type
    shall also be marked with the following additional requirement on its packaging:
                         a) “For BIS certification details please visit www.bis.gov.in”

4. REJECTION
   The production which conforms to the Indian Standard and covered under the scope of this licence
   shall be marked with the Standard Mark. Disposal of non-conforming product shall be done in such
   a way so as to ensure that there is no violation of provisions of BIS Act, 2016.

                                                                                            Page 6 of 7

                                                                                                                             PM/ IS 11646 (Part 2)/2
                                                                                                                                        June 2026
                                                                  TABLE-1
                                           (Recommended Levels of Control by BIS- for Guidance Only)

                               (1)                                                                            (2)
                           Test Details                                                                Levels of Control
                                             Test Methods                     No. of
Cl.        Requirement                                                                       Frequency                      Remarks
                                 Clause              Reference               Sample

                                                                                                                No further testing is required if
3     Material                       3              IS 11646 (Part 2)           01       Each consignment       accompanied with test certificate
                                                                                                                or ISI marked.

5     Construction                   5              IS 11646 (Part 2)                  Each cane                Any cane not meeting the
                                                                                                                requirement shall not be marked
6     Workmanship and Finish         6              IS 11646 (Part 2)                  Each cane                and shall be rejected.

                                                                                                                If any sample fails, two more
                                                                            Once in a week or whenever
                                                                                                                samples to be tested. Lot to be
7.1   Endurance Test                 7.1            IS 11646 (Part 2)       there is any change in material
                                                                                                                accepted only if both the
                                                                            or construction
                                                                                                                samples pass.

                                                                                                                                         Page 7 of 7
