PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                                             May 2026

                           PRODUCT MANUAL
                PLAIN BEARINGS — THICK-WALLED BUSHES,
     PLAIN AND FLANGE TYPE, FULL ROUND (WITHOUT ANY JOINT OR SLIT)
                        According to IS 14478: 2026

This Product Manual shall be used as reference material by all Regional/Branch Offices & licensees to ensure
uniformity of practice and transparency in operation of certification under Scheme-I of Bureau of Indian
Standards (Conformity Assessment) Regulations,2018 for various products. The document may also be used
by prospective applicants desirous of obtaining BIS certification.

                                                           Flange Type, Full Round (Without any Joint or Slit)
       No. of amendments
     Raw material                           Backing Material (Cl. 6, Annex C of IS 14478)
                                            Solid Bronze Bushes (Cl. 6, Annex D of IS 14478)
                                                           Note: This section indicates the requirements for raw material
                                                           (if specified in the IS) for which compliance is to be
                                                           established during Grant of Licence/Change in Scope of
                                                           Licence/Factory Surveillance.
     Grouping Guidelines
       Sample Quantity
       Parameters to be Declared in Test                       Outside diameter
                                                               Width
       Request                                             Note: Apart from the above, any other requirements/
                                                           parameters may also be declared as per the standard, as
                                                           applicable.
     List of Test Equipment

                                                                                                             Page 1 of 7

                                                                                             PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                                    May 2026

   Scheme of Inspection and Testing
   Possible tests in a day                       Note: This section is for the guidance of BIS Certification
                                                 Officers/ Technical Auditors of BIS Authorized Outside
                                                 Surveillance Agencies (OSAs) during factory inspection to
                                                 provide ready reference regarding the tests which can be
                                                 witnessed during the inspection in the factory by the officer/
                                                 auditor.
“License is granted to use Standard Mark as per IS 14478 : 2026 with the following scope:

Name of the product                     Plain Bearings - Thick-Walled Bushes, Plain and Flange
                                        Type, Full Round (Without any Joint or Slit)
Type                                           Cylindrical Non-Ferrous Bush
                                               Flanged Non-Ferrous Bush
                                               Cylindrical Bi-Metallic Bush
                                               Flanged Bi-Metallic Bush
                                               Flanged Tri-Metallic Bush

Inside diameter                         From ____mm to up to and including _____mm

Material      Lining Material           (to be declared by the manufacturer)

              Backing Material          (to be declared by the manufacturer)

              Solid Bronze Bushes       (to be declared by the manufacturer)

                      BUREAU OF INDIAN STANDARDS
       MANAK BHAVAN, 9, BAHADUR SHAH ZAFAR MARG, NEW DELHI-110002
                             www.bis.gov.in

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 7

                                                                                    PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                           May 2026

                                     ANNEX -A
                                 Grouping Guidelines

1. Plain Bearings - Thick-Walled Bushes, Plain and Flange Type, Full Round (Without any Joint
   or Slit) as per IS 14478: 2026 may be classified as below:

       Type                                         Cylindrical Non-Ferrous Bush
                                                    Flanged Non-Ferrous Bush
                                                    Cylindrical Bi-Metallic Bush
                                                    Flanged Bi-Metallic Bush
                                                    Flanged Tri-Metallic Bush
       Inside diameter                          From ____mm to up to and including _____mm
       Material      Lining Material            (to be declared by the manufacturer)

                     Backing Material           (to be declared by the manufacturer)

                     Solid Bronze Bushes        (to be declared by the manufacturer)

2. Based on the above classification, following grouping guidelines shall be followed for
   considering Grant of Licence (GoL)/Change in Scope of Licence (CSoL):

      Samples of each type of Thick-Walled Bushes shall be tested separately. However, if
       flanged type is tested, corresponding cylindrical type may also be covered in the scope
       of licence. For instance, if flanged non-ferrous bush is tested, cylindrical non-ferrous bush
       may also be covered.
      Samples of a particular type of Thick-Walled Bushes with the lowest inside diameter and
       the highest inside diameter, of any outside diameter and of any width shall be tested to
       cover the entire range of inside diameters for that particular type for which the firm intends
       to obtain licence.
      Samples of Thick-Walled Bushes for each type of material (for Lining Material, Backing
       Material and Solid Bronze Bushes) shall be tested separately.

3. The Firm shall declare all the varieties of Thick-Walled Bushes intended to be covered in the
   Licence. The Scope of Licence may be restricted based on the Manufacturing and testing
   capabilities of the Manufacturer.

4. During the operation of the Licence, BO shall ensure that all the varieties covered in the
   Licence are tested in rotation, to the extent possible.

                                                                                         Page 3 of 7

                                                                                        PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                               May 2026

                                          ANNEX- B
                                  List of Test Equipments
                                (Indicative List, For Guidance Only)

 Sl.                Cl. Ref.               Tests used in with          Test Equipment
 No.                                       Clause Reference
  1                   4                    Dimensions                  Vernier Caliper
              Table 1 & Table 2                                        Micrometer
  2                    5                   Tolerances                  Dial Gauge
                                                                       Height Gauge
                                                                       Angle Protractor
  3                6                       Material                    Spectrometer
       Annex B, Annex C & Annex D                                      Sample preparation tools
  4                    8                   Surface Roughness           Surface Roughness Tester

The above list is indicative only and may not be treated as exhaustive.

                                                                                             Page 4 of 7

                                                                                         PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                                May 2026

                                        ANNEX C
                             Scheme of Inspection and Testing

1. QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN

1.1 It is expected that during operation of BIS licence manufacturers will implement a Quality
    Assurance Plan (QAP) i.e. a plan of regular testing and in-process controls, designed to ensure
    that the product bearing the Standard Mark conforms to all requirements of the Indian Standard.

1.2 The manufacturers shall define a Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) defining the control unit (i.e.
    lot/batch etc.), the levels of control (i.e. the frequency and number of samples for conducting the
    different tests as per the Indian Standard) and declare the arrangement for testing i.e. whether in-
    house or sub-contracting/ sharing for each applicable test and submit the same to BIS Branch
    Office for information. The manufacturer shall comply with the QAP and maintain test records in
    accordance with para 2.1.

1.3 Recommended Levels of Control/ Control Unit:
    1.3.1 For the guidance of manufacturers, the recommended definition of control unit is: entire
          quantity of Thick-Walled Bushes of same type, same inside diameter, same outside
          diameter and same width, manufactured in a day under similar process condition from the
          same consignment of raw materials shall constitute a control unit.
    1.3.2 For the guidance of manufacturers in preparing the Quality Assurance Plan, recommended
          levels of control are given in Table 1. Manufacturer has the discretion of declaring their
          own levels of control or accept the levels of control given in this document.
    1.3.3 The manufacturer shall ensure inspection and testing as per the Quality Assurance Plan
          submitted by them on the whole production of the factory which is covered by this plan.

1.4 However, all manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of
    the Indian Standard.

2. ENSURING COMPLIANCE THROUGH TESTING
  The manufacturers shall ensure compliance of their products to all the requirements of the Indian
  Standard for which they may have in-house test facilities. However, there is no obligation to
  maintain in-house laboratory. Licensee may use alternative arrangements for tests of the
  production as per the declared QAP. Various alternatives are available for operation of BIS
  certification as given below and the relevant guidelines for availing such relaxations by the
  manufacturers, as amended from time to time, are to be referred:
           i) Shared testing resources like common facility,
           ii) Cluster based testing facility,
           iii) Sub-contracting to outside laboratories which may either be:
                             a) BIS recognised/ empanelled laboratories, or
                             b) Any accredited laboratory as per ISO/IEC 17025

2.1 Test Records- The manufacturers shall maintain test records for the tests carried out (either in-
    house or at a sub-contracted or at shared test facility) to establish conformity of the product to the
    Standard for operation of licence. For the tests being subcontracted or conducted at a shared test
    facility, test results issued by the laboratories or test facilities, shall be made available for
    inspection by BIS.

                                                                                              Page 5 of 7

                                                                                      PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                             May 2026

3. PACKING AND MARKING
  The Standard Mark as given in the Schedule of the licence shall be incorporated legibly and indelibly
  on the packaging of the Thick-Walled Bushes provided always that the Thick-Walled Bushes so
  marked conforms to each requirement of the specification.

           3.1 Marking of Thick-Walled Bushes shall be done as per Cl. 10 of IS 14478:2026.

           3.2 Additional Marking requirements: The Thick-Walled Bushes shall also be marked
               with the following additional requirement on its packaging:
                               a) “For BIS certification details please visit www.bis.gov.in”

4. REJECTION
   The production which conforms to the Indian Standard and covered under the scope of this licence
   shall be marked with the Standard Mark. Disposal of non-conforming product shall be done in such
   a way so as to ensure that there is no violation of provisions of BIS Act, 2016.

                                                                                            Page 6 of 7

                                                                                                                                 PM / IS 14478 / 1
                                                                                                                                        May 2026
                                                                  TABLE-1
                                           (Recommended Levels of Control by BIS- for Guidance Only)

                           (1)                                                                         (2)

                       Test Details                                                            Levels of Control

                                      Test Methods
                                                                No. of
Cl.      Requirement                                                           Frequency                            Remarks
                              Clause         Reference         Sample

6     Material               ANNEX B          IS 14478                Each Consignment            No further testing is required if accompanied
                             ANNEX C                                                              with the Test Certificate or ISI marked.
                             ANNEX D

4     Dimensions              Table 1         IS 14478           05        Each Control Unit      Firm to also have adequate in-process
                              Table 2                                                             controls to check compliance of this
                                                                                                  parameter as per the tolerances given in the
                                                                                                  Indian Standard. Appropriate records shall be
5     Tolerances                           IS 919 (Part 1)       05        Each Control Unit      maintained by the manufacturer for evidence
                                           IS 919 (Part 2)                                        of conformity.

8     Surface Roughness                       IS 3073            01        Each Control Unit

                                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 7
